Classes and Objects:-

Objects are the real word entity. For Example:Watch,Pen,Animals etc.


Encapsulation: Encapsulation is defined as the wrapping up of data & methods under a single unit.It also implements data hiding.

Construtor:Constructor is a special method which is invoked automatically at the time of object creation.


-Constructor have the same name as class or structure.

-Constructor do not have a return type .(Not even void)

-Constructors are only called once at object creation.

-Memory allocation happens when constructor is called.



Introduction to OOPS:
----------------------

Object-oriented programming System(OOPs) is a programming paradigm based
on the concept of “objects” and “classes” that contain data and methods. The
primary purpose of OOP is to increase the flexibility and maintainability of
programs. It is used to structure a software program into simple, reusable pieces of
code blueprints (called classes) which are used to create individual instances of
objects.


What is an Object ?
-------------------

The object is an entity that has a state and a behavior associated with it. It may be
any real-world object like the mouse, keyboard, chair, table, pen, etc.
Objects have states and behaviors. Arrays are objects. You've been using objects all
along and may not even realize it. Apart from primitive data types, objects are all
around in java.


What is a Class ?
-----------------

A class is a blueprint that defines the variables and the methods (Characteristics)
common to all objects of a certain kind.
Example: If Car is a class, then Maruti 800 is an object of the Car class. All cars share
similar features like 4 wheels, 1 steering wheel, windows, breaks etc. Maruti 800 (The Car
object) has all these features.

Defining a Class in Java
------------------------

All class definitions start with the class keyword, which is followed by the name of
the class.

Here is an example of a Car class:

class Car{
}


Naming Convention of Class
--------------------------

Java class names are written in CapitalizedWords notation by convention. For
example,a class for a specific model of Car like the Bugatti Veyron would be
written as BugattiVeyron. The first letter is capitalized. This is just a good
programming practice.









